Rust support documentation install guide [WIP] (#445)
leaningtech/labs: sites/browserpod/src/content/docs/12-guides/07-run-programs-in-a-pod.md

Reviewer: The code blocks formatting in this file are messy, please review and correct properly, they don't render well.

---

> title: Creating and using Terminals in the pod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Creating and using terminals in the Pod
```

description: Create a terminal and run programs inside a Pod
---

This guide will show you how to add interactive terminals on your page.

> _This guide assumes you have a pod running already, see our [Quickstart](/docs/getting-started/quickstart) or [NPM project setup guide](/docs/getting-started/expressjs)_ to see how.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_This guide assumes you have a Pod running already. Take a look to our [Quickstart](/docs/getting-started/quickstart) and [npm project setup guide](/docs/getting-started/expressjs)_ to learn more.
```

## Create a terminal

> ### 1. Add an html element on your page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Add an HTML element on your page
```

> A terminal needs an element in your page to render into, add the following element to the html of the relavent page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A terminal needs an element in your page to render into. Add the following element to the HTML of the relevant page:
```

```html
<div id="console"></div>
```

### 2. Starting the terminal

> Then add the folowing line of javascript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the folowing line of JavaScript:
```

```js
const terminal = await pod.createDefaultTerminal(
	document.getElementById("console")
);
```

> (_If using on of the templates, you would add this to src/main.js_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(_If using one of the templates, you would add this to `src/main.js`_)
```

> _If you'd like to customize your terminal, such as changing the size, or invoke a specific callback on terminal output, you can call [createcustomterminal](/docs/reference/BrowserPod/createCustomTerminal) instead._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_If you'd like to customize your terminal, such as changing the size or invoking a specific callback, you can call [createCustomTerminal](/docs/reference/BrowserPod/createCustomTerminal) instead._
```

> that's it! You now have a terminal, on your page. Keep reading to see how to use it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it! You now have a terminal on your page. Keep reading to see how to use it:
```

## Using the Terminal

> Terminal usage can be split in 2 ways, interactive terminal usage, and running programs from the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terminal usage can be split into two categories: interactive terminal usage, and running programs from the Pod.
```

> --- WIP (or.. more WIP then above ig haha) from here---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 1. Run an interactive shell

Running `bash` with no arguments gives you an interactive shell in the
terminal, which is useful while developing:

````js
await pod.run("bash", [], { terminal });

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
await pod.run("bash", [], { terminal });
```
```

## Run a program

Pass the program, its arguments, and the terminal to run it in:

```js
await pod.run("node", ["main.js"], {
  echo: true,
  terminal,
  cwd: "/project",
});

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

- `echo` prints the command itself to the terminal before it runs
- `cwd` sets the working directory
- `terminal` is where the program's output goes

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Run a binary you've copied in

Programs don't have to come from the system image. Once you've
[copied a binary into the Pod](/docs/guides/write-files-to-pod), run it by
path like anything else:

```js
await pod.run("/project/hello", [], { terminal, cwd: "/project" });

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

The binary has to be compiled for BrowserPod's platform — a program built
for your own machine won't run in a Pod. See

> [Installing the Rust toolchain]() for an example of producing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Installing the Rust toolchain](/docs/guides/installing-rust-toolchain) for an example of producing one.
```
